docs(eagleye-setting-guide): add eagleye setting in how to guides (#334)
autowarefoundation/autoware-documentation: docs/how-to-guides/eagleye-integration-guide.md

# Using Eagleye in Autoware

This page will show you how to set up [Eagleye](https://github.com/MapIV/eagleye) in order to use it with Autoware.
For the details of the integration proposal, please refer to [this](https://github.com/orgs/autowarefoundation/discussions/3257) Discussion.

## What is Eagleye?

Eagleye is an open-source GNSS/IMU-based localizer initially developed by [MAP IV. Inc](https://map4.jp/).
Eagleye provides a cost-effective alternative to LiDAR and point cloud-based localization by using low-cost GNSS and IMU sensors to provide vehicle position, orientation, and altitude information.  
Using GNSS Doppler velocity, Eagleye can also compensate for wheel speed and IMU angular velocity bias to achieve more accurate speed and heading estimation.

With the addition of Eagleye integration into Autoware, users will be able to choose between their existing LiDAR and point cloud-based localization stacks or GNSS/IMU-based Eagleye localizer, depending on their specific needs and operating environment.

There are two ways to utilize Eagleye results in the Autoware localization stack:

1. Feed only twist into the EKF localizer.

> ![Eagleye twist integration](images/eagleye-integration-guide/eagleye_twist.drawio.svg)

Reviewer: This is probably my mistake in my previous suggestion. Currently, the numbered list is still incorrect. It's still 1 and then 1.
![Screenshot from 2023-04-12 15-44-52](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/23651560/231374282-21e62f58-1eee-434a-9353-67a349711652.png)
With the following changes (please note the added spaces),
```suggestion
   ![Eagleye twist integration](images/eagleye-integration-guide/eagleye_twist.drawio.svg)
```
the results should be as follows.
![Screenshot from 2023-04-12 15-50-39](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/23651560/231374896-241eda39-0b34-45cb-a047-87a8deda9909.png)

Author: Fixed

Author: ![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/18298605/231896788-163e5771-09f8-489d-912e-f24c3daa539e.png)

Reviewer: Thank you! There’s one small thing. I think you misspelled Autoware as Autowares in the index.md. The CI is failing.

2. Feed both twist and pose from Eagleye into the EKF localizer (twist can also be used with regular `gyro_odometry`).

> ![Eagleye pose twist integration](images/eagleye-integration-guide/eagleye_pose_twist.drawio.svg)

Reviewer: Same as above.

```suggestion
   ![Eagleye pose twist integration](images/eagleye-integration-guide/eagleye_pose_twist.drawio.svg)
```

Author: Fixe

Eagleye needs to be stationary for about 3~5 seconds, according to the parameter `yaw_rate_offset_stop.estimated_interval` in `eagleye_config.yaml`, after startup for the yaw rate offset to be estimated.
Static initialization is performed even in environments where GNSS is not received.

### Dynamic initialization

Next, it needs to travel in a straight line for about 20~30 seconds, as defined by the parameter `heading.estimated_minimum_interval` and `velocity_scale_factor.estimated_minimum_interval`, in order to estimate the wheel speed scale factor and azimuth angle. Once the dynamic initialization is completed, Eagleye will begin to output both twist and pose.

## Eagleye setup

### GNSS ROS driver setting

In addition to latitude, longitude, and height information (`sensor_msgs/msg/NavSatFix`), Eagleye also requires velocity information from GNSS.
The settings needed for each GNSS ROS driver are as follows:

- [ublox_gps](https://github.com/KumarRobotics/ublox/tree/ros2/ublox_gps): This ROS driver publishes `sensor_msgs/msg/NavSatFix` and `geometry_msgs/msg/TwistWithCovarianceStamped` required by Eagleye with default settings. Therefore, no additional settings are required.

> - [septentrio_gnss_driver](https://github.com/septentrio-gnss/septentrio_gnss_driver/tree/ros2): Set `publish.navsatfix` and `publish.twist` in the config file [`gnss.yaml`](https://github.com/septentrio-gnss/septentrio_gnss_driver/blob/ros2/config/gnss.yaml#L90) to `true`

Reviewer 2: This explanation gives reader the impression that Eagleye only works with these drivers. You might want to rewrite this so that readers can understand:
* requirements for the GNSS driver to use Eagleye is to publish `sensor_msgs/msg/NavSatFix` and `geometry_msgs/msg/TwistWithCovarianceStamped`.
* It is tested with the following example GNSS drivers: ublox_gps and septentrio_gnss_drivers

Author: Fixed

imu_topic: /sensing/imu/tamagawa/imu_raw
gnss:
  velocity_source_type: 2 # rtklib_msgs/RtklibNav: 0, nmea_msgs/Sentence: 1, ublox_msgs/NavPVT: 2, geometry_msgs/TwistWithCovarianceStamped: 3
  velocity_source_topic: /sensing/gnss/ublox/navpvt
  llh_source_type: 2 # rtklib_msgs/RtklibNav: 0, nmea_msgs/Sentence: 1, sensor_msgs/NavSatFix: 2
  llh_source_topic: /sensing/gnss/ublox/nav_sat_fix
```

Also, the frequency of GNSS and IMU must be set in [`eagleye_config.yaml`](https://github.com/MapIV/autoware_launch/blob/3f04a9dd7bc4a4c49d4ec790e3f6b9958ab822da/autoware_launch/config/localization/eagleye_config.param.yaml#L36)

```yaml
common:
  imu_rate: 50
  gnss_rate: 5
```

### Eagleye parameter tuning

The basic parameters that do not need to be changed except those mentioned above, i.e., topic names and sensors' frequency, are described below [here](https://github.com/MapIV/eagleye/tree/autoware-main/eagleye_rt/config).
Additionally, the parameters for converting NavSatFix to pose is listed in [`fix2pose.yaml`](https://github.com/MapIV/eagleye/blob/autoware-main/eagleye_util/fix2pose/launch/fix2pose.xml).

### Autoware setting for Eagleye

> Please refer to [this PR](https://github.com/autowarefoundation/autoware/pull/3261) when introducing Eagleye to your Autoware setup.

Reviewer 2: If you have necessary steps in order to setup EagleEye (e.g., adding cloning new repositories), I would like to have them written them down here rather than putting links to PR since PR's purpose is not for writing instructions.

Author: Fixed

# Eagleye Integration Guide

This page will show you how to set up [eagleye](https://github.com/MapIV/eagleye), which is integrated into autoware.

Discussions during the integration are as follows.
https://github.com/orgs/autowarefoundation/discussions/3257

## What is Eagleye?

Eagleye provides a cost-effective alternative to LiDAR and point cloud-based localization by using low-cost GNSS and IMU sensors to provide vehicle position and attitude.
Eagleye can also compensate for wheel speed and IMU angular velocity bias by using GNSS Doppler velocity.

Autoware users will be able to choose between their existing LiDAR and point cloud-based localization stacks or GNSS/IMU-based eagleye localizer, depending on their specific needs and operating environment.

There are two ways to utilize eagleye results with the autoware localization stack.

> 1. Feed only Twist into the EKF localizer.

Reviewer: For L7 - L9
```suggestion
1. Feed only twist into the EKF localizer.
![Eagleye twist integration](images/eagleye-integration-guide/eagleye-twist.png)
```
When there's a new line after a numbered list, the numbering doesn't seem to work properly. The numbers are shown as "1" and then "1" again. Please see the output documentation page below (this is your original):

![Screenshot from 2023-04-12 11-05-40](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/23651560/231354245-c8857366-f391-4b2f-897e-bfce2fa872e4.png)

Also, I suggest changing Twist to twist to be more consistent.

![eagleye twist integration](images/eagleye-integration-guide/eagleye-twist.png)

> 2. Feed both Twist and Pose from eagleye into the EKF localizer.(twist can also be used with regular gyro_odometry

Reviewer: L21-24
```suggestion
2. Feed both twist and pose from Eagleye into the EKF localizer (twist can also be used with regular `gyro_odometry`).
![Eagleye pose integration](images/eagleye-integration-guide/eagleye-pose.png)

```

Similar to the previous comment about a numbered list. Also, fix some typos.

)

![eagleye pose integration](images/eagleye-integration-guide/eagleye-pose.png)

> Note that RTK positioning is required for localization using the eagleye pose alone. RTK positioning is not required for twist.

Reviewer: Suggest minor rewordings.

```suggestion
Note that RTK positioning is only required for localization using the Eagleye pose. RTK positioning is not required for twist.
```

> ## Behavior when eagleye is executed by autoware

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Behavior when Eagleye is executed by Autoware
```

>  eagleye estimates are largely based on the following

Reviewer: Suggest changing estimation to initialization.

```suggestion
On startup, Eagleye will perform static and dynamic initialization.
```

> ### Static Estimation

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Static initialization
```

eagleye needs to be stationary for about 3~5 seconds (yaw_rate_offset_stop.estimated_interval in eagleye_config.yaml) after startup. Static estimation is performed even in environments where GNSS is not received. At this point the yaw rate offset is corrected.

> ### Movement Estimation

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Dynamic initialization
```

> Next, it needs to travel in a straight line for about 20~30 seconds (heading.estimated_minimum_interval and velocity_scale_factor.estimated_minimum_interval) and the wheel speed scale factor and azimuth angle are estimated. At this point, the estimation of twist is complete and pose will begin to be output.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Next, it needs to travel in a straight line for about 20~30 seconds, as defined by the parameter `heading.estimated_minimum_interval` and `velocity_scale_factor.estimated_minimum_interval`, in order to estimate the wheel speed scale factor and azimuth angle. Once the dynamic initialization is completed, Eagleye will begin to output both twist and pose.
```

> ## eagleye setup

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Eagleye setup
```

> ### gnss ros drivers setting

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### GNSS ROS driver setting
```

> In eagleye, it is necessary to obtain velocity information from GNSS, in addition to NavSatFix.

Reviewer: L42-L55
- Display hyperlinks instead of long URLs
- Reword
- I'm not sure what https://github.com/KumarRobotics/ublox/blob/humble-devel/ublox_msgs/msg/NavPVT.msg is. I assumed it was a typo(?). Since the link is broken, I couldn't check.
- This [link](https://github.com/KumarRobotics/ublox/tree/humble-devel/ublox_gps) is also dead.

```suggestion
In addition to latitude, longitude, and height information (`sensor_msgs/msg/NavSatFix`), Eagleye also requires velocity information from GNSS.
The settings needed for each GNSS ROS driver are as follows:

- [ublox_gps](https://github.com/KumarRobotics/ublox/tree/humble-devel/ublox_gps): This ROS driver publishes `sensor_msgs/msg/NavSatFix` and `geometry_msgs/msg/TwistWithCovarianceStamped` required by Eagleye with default settings. Therefore, no additional settings are required.
- [septentrio_gnss_driver](https://github.com/septentrio-gnss/septentrio_gnss_driver/tree/ros2): Set `publish.navsatfix` and `publish.twist` in the config file [`gnss.yaml`](https://github.com/septentrio-gnss/septentrio_gnss_driver/blob/ros2/config/gnss.yaml#L90) to `true`
```

ex
 - [ublox_gps](https://github.com/KumarRobotics/ublox/tree/humble-devel/ublox_gps)

This ROS driver publishes sensor_msgs/msg/NavSatFix and geometry_msgs/msg/TwistWithCovarianceStamped required for eagleye with default settings

https://github.com/KumarRobotics/ublox/blob/humble-devel/ublox_msgs/msg/NavPVT.msg

 - [septentrio_gnss_driver](https://github.com/septentrio-gnss/septentrio_gnss_driver/tree/ros2)

Set `publish.navsatfix` and `publish.twist` in the parameter `yaml` file to `true`

https://github.com/septentrio-gnss/septentrio_gnss_driver/blob/ros2/config/gnss.yaml#L90

> ### eagleye topic setting

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Eagleye topic setting
```

> You must specify input topics.

Reviewer: L59-60
```suggestion
You must correctly specify input topics for GNSS latitude, longitude, and height information, GNSS speed information, IMU information, and vehicle speed information in the [`eagleye_config.yaml`](https://github.com/MapIV/autoware_launch/blob/3f04a9dd7bc4a4c49d4ec790e3f6b9958ab822da/autoware_launch/config/localization/eagleye_config.param.yaml#L7-L16).
```

- Will this [commit link](https://github.com/MapIV/autoware_launch/blob/3f04a9dd7bc4a4c49d4ec790e3f6b9958ab822da/autoware_launch/config/localization/eagleye_config.param.yaml#L7-L16) always available in the future? Will the branch be removed once the PRs are merged?

Input topics include GNSS latitude/longitude height information, GNSS speed information, IMU information, and vehicle speed information

> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```yaml
```

- Add file format to properly show syntax highlights

    # Topic
    twist:
      twist_type: 1 # TwistStamped : 0, TwistWithCovarianceStamped: 1
      twist_topic: /sensing/vehicle_velocity_converter/twist_with_covariance
    imu_topic: /sensing/imu/tamagawa/imu_raw
    gnss:
      velocity_source_type: 2 # rtklib_msgs/RtklibNav: 0, nmea_msgs/Sentence: 1, ublox_msgs/NavPVT: 2, geometry_msgs/TwistWithCovarianceStamped: 3
      velocity_source_topic: /sensing/gnss/ublox/navpvt
      llh_source_type: 2 # rtklib_msgs/RtklibNav: 0, nmea_msgs/Sentence: 1, sensor_msgs/NavSatFix: 2
      llh_source_topic: /sensing/gnss/ublox/nav_sat_fix
```

> https://github.com/MapIV/autoware_launch/blob/3f04a9dd7bc4a4c49d4ec790e3f6b9958ab822da/autoware_launch/config/localization/eagleye_config.param.yaml#L7-L16

Reviewer: Suggest removing this line.

> Also, GNSS and IMU must be set to frequency yaml

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Also, the frequency of GNSS and IMU must be set in [`eagleye_config.yaml`](https://github.com/MapIV/autoware_launch/blob/3f04a9dd7bc4a4c49d4ec790e3f6b9958ab822da/autoware_launch/config/localization/eagleye_config.param.yaml#L36)
```

> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```yaml
```

Author: It looks like you are in the wrong place to fix it.

Reviewer: @rsasaki0109 I think because you already merged the suggestions. Therefore, the line numbers are not the same anymore. There's a yellow "Outdated" tag on the comment.

    common:
      imu_rate: 50
      gnss_rate: 5
```

> https://github.com/MapIV/autoware_launch/blob/3f04a9dd7bc4a4c49d4ec790e3f6b9958ab822da/autoware_launch/config/localization/eagleye_config.param.yaml#L36

Reviewer: Remove this line(?)

> ### eagleye parameter tuning

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Eagleye parameter tuning
```

> See below for parameter description.

Reviewer: L89 - L97
```suggestion
The basic parameters that do not need to be changed except those mentioned above, i.e., topic names and sensors' frequency, are described below [here](https://github.com/MapIV/eagleye/tree/autoware-main/eagleye_rt/config).
Additionally, the parameters for converting NavSatFix to pose is listed in [`fix2pose.yaml`](https://github.com/MapIV/eagleye/blob/autoware-main/eagleye_util/fix2pose/launch/fix2pose.xml).
```

The following are the basic parameters that do not need to be changed except those mentioned above.

https://github.com/MapIV/eagleye/tree/autoware-main/eagleye_rt/config

Below are the parameters for converting navsatfix to pose.

https://github.com/MapIV/eagleye/blob/autoware-main/eagleye_util/fix2pose/launch/fix2pose.xml

> ### Autoware Setting for Eagleye

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Autoware setting for Eagleye
```

> Please refer to the following PR when introducing eagleye to your autoware.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Please refer to [this PR](https://github.com/autowarefoundation/autoware/pull/3261) when introducing Eagleye to your Autoware setup.
```

> You need to install eagleye related packages and change the launcher.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You need to install Eagleye-related packages and change Autoware's launcher.
```

> Four files are required in the autoware localization launcher to run eagleye: `eagleye_rt.launch.xml`, `eagleye_config.yaml`, `gnss_converter.launch.xml` and `fix2pose.launch.xml`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Four files are required in the Autoware localization launcher to run Eagleye: `eagleye_rt.launch.xml`, `eagleye_config.yaml`, `gnss_converter.launch.xml` and `fix2pose.launch.xml`.
```

> https://github.com/autowarefoundation/autoware/pull/3261

Reviewer: Remove this line(?)

### Usage of eagleye in autoware

eagleye has a function for position estimation as pose_estimator and a function for twist correction as twist_estimator.

localization launch  | twist estimator | pose estimator
-- | -- | --

> tier4_localization_launch| gyro_odometry | ndt

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`tier4_localization_launch`| `gyro_odometry` | NDT
```

map4_localization_launch/eagleye_twist_localization_launch| eagleye_rt(gyro/odom/gnss fusion) | ndt
map4_localization_launch/eagleye_pose_twist_localization_launch| eagleye_rt(gyro/odom/gnss fusion) | eagleye_rt(gyro/odom/gnss fusion)

> Switching requires switching the localization module in `autoware.launch.xml` and the `pose_estimator_mode` parameter in `map4_localization_component.launch.xml`.

Reviewer: L117 - L119
```suggestion
Enabling Eagleye in Autoware requires switching the localization module in `autoware.launch.xml` and the `pose_estimator_mode` parameter in `map4_localization_component.launch.xml`.
When using Eagleye, comment out `tier4_localization_component.launch.xml` and start `map4_localization_component.launch.xml`.
```

When using eagleye, comment out `tier4_localization_component.launch.xml` and start `map4_localization_component.launch.xml`.

> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```xml
```

  <!-- Localization -->
  <group if="$(var launch_localization)">

>     <include file="$(find-pkg-share autoware_launch)/launch/components/tier4_localization_component.launch.xml"/>

Reviewer: L124-L125
```suggestion
    <include file="$(find-pkg-share autoware_launch)/launch/components/map4_localization_component.launch.xml"/>
    <!-- <include file="$(find-pkg-share autoware_launch)/launch/components/tier4_localization_component.launch.xml"/> -->
```

Might be better to update the code block to match the description (comment out tier4 one)?

    <!-- <include file="$(find-pkg-share autoware_launch)/launch/components/map4_localization_component.launch.xml"/> -->
  </group>
```

> #### eagleye as pose_estimator

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Eagleye as a pose estimator
```

> In the sample autoware, you can set pose_estimator to gnss by setting `pose_estimator_mode:=gnss` in `map4_localization_component.launch.xml`.

Reviewer: L131-L134
```suggestion
In Autoware, you can set the pose estimator to GNSS by setting `pose_estimator_mode:=gnss` in `map4_localization_component.launch.xml`.
Note that the output position might not appear to be in the point cloud maps if you are using maps that are not properly georeferenced.
In the case of a single GNSS antenna, initial position estimation (dynamic initialization) can take several seconds to complete after starting to run in an environment where GNSS positioning is available.
```

- Note that it does not match the map, so be careful when using maps that are out of georeference.
- In the case of a single GNSS antenna, initial position estimation takes several tens of seconds to complete after starting to run in an environment where GNSS positioning is available.

> #### eagleye as twist_estimator

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Eagleye as a twist estimator
```

> In the sample autoware, you can set pose_estimator to gnss by setting `pose_estimator_mode:=lidar` in `map4_localization_component.launch.xml`.

Reviewer: L138-L140
```suggestion
In Autoware, you can set the pose estimator to NDT by setting `pose_estimator_mode:=lidar` in `map4_localization_component.launch.xml`.
Unlike Eagleye position estimation, Eagleye twist estimation first outputs uncorrected raw values when activated, and then outputs corrected twists as soon as static initialization is complete.
```
